Subjet
Program name ft_nm
Turn in files
Makefile Yes
Arguments
External functs. open(2) close(2) mmap(2) munmap(2) write(2)
fstat(2) malloc(3) free(3) exit(3) perror(3)
strerror(1) getpagesize(2)
Libft authorized
Description You have to recode the nm (with no options)
To do this project, you will have to use a linux OS, you shall use docker or a VM if
needed. You have to work with ELF binaries. You have to handle x86_32, x64, object
files, .so
Use the file command to view details on a file. You can use the binaries located in
your system (/usr/bin/, /usr/lib/...).
man nm
• This project will be corrected by humans only. You’re allowed to organise and name
your files as you see fit, but you must follow the following rules.
• The executable must be named ft_nm
• You must code in C and use a Makefile.
• Your Makefile must compile the project and must contain the usual rules.
• If you are clever, you will use your library for your ft_nm. Submit also your folder
libft including its own Makefile at the root of your repository. Your Makefile
will have to compile the library, and then compile your project.
• Output is to be similar to nm on the symbols list (order, offset, padding...). Other
aspects can have some small differences (filename, etc).
• Your program must behave like the system nm on every other aspect. You have to
handle errors carefully. In no way can your program quit in an unexpected manner
(Segmentation fault, bus error, double free, etc).
3
A completely UNIX project ft_nm
• Be cautious. There are many ways to lead your program out of the mapped content,
may it be with non-null terminated string, incorrect offsets... Check everything.
• Make sure that every value that you parse is correct: for instance, when parsing
flags, architecture, match your result with a reference to ensure its value is correct.
4
Chapter III
Bonus part
We will look at your bonus part if and only if your mandatory part
is EXCELLENT. This means that your must complete the mandatory part,
beginning to end, and your error management needs to be flawless,
even in cases of twisted or bad usage. If that’s not the case, your
bonuses will be totally IGNORED.
Managing the following options:
• -a
• -g
• -u
• -r
• -p